Add documentation for experimental service APIs integration (#8497)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/service-apis/index.md

---

> title: Kubernetes Service APIs (Experimental)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Kubernetes Service APIs [Experimental]
```

description: Describes how to configure the Kubernetes Service APIs with Istio.
weight: 99
keywords: [traffic-management,ingress]
owner: istio/wg-networking-maintainers
test: no
---

This task describes how to configure Istio to expose a service outside of the service mesh cluster, using the Kubernetes [Service APIs](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/service-apis/). These APIs are an actively developed evolution of the `Service` and `Ingress` APIs.

{{< warning >}}

> Both the APIs, as well as Istio's implementation of the APIs, are currently experimental and intended only for evaluation. They will undergo significant changes in future versions. For most users, we recommend using the [Istio Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the APIs, as well as Istio's implementation of the APIs, are currently experimental and intended only for evaluation. They will undergo significant changes in future versions. For production deployment, we recommend using the [Istio Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/).
```

{{< /warning >}}

## Setup

> First, install the Service APIs CRDs:

Reviewer 2: Change the first, next, and finally to numbered bullets.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl kustomize "github.com/kubernetes-sigs/service-apis/config/crd?ref=v0.1.0-rc2" | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

Next, install Istio, or reconfigure an existing installation to enable the Service APIs controller:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl install --set values.pilot.env.PILOT_ENABLED_SERVICE_APIS=true
{{< /text >}}

Finally, follow the instructions in the [Determining the ingress IP and ports](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports) sections of the [Ingress Gateways task](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/) in order to retrieve the external IP address of your ingress gateway.

## Configuring a Gateway

> See the [Service APIs](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/service-apis/) documentation for information about all of the APIs included.

Reviewer 2: about ~~all of~~ the APIs ~~included~~

1. Deploy a test application:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@
    {{< /text >}}

1. Deploy the Service APIs configuration:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: GatewayClass
    metadata:
      name: istio
    spec:
      controller: istio.io/gateway-controller
    ---
    apiVersion: networking.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Gateway
    metadata:
      name: gateway
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      gatewayClassName: istio
      listeners:
      - hostname: "*"
        port: 80
        protocol: HTTP
        routes:
          namespaces:
            from: All
          selector:
            matchLabels:
              selected: "yes"
          kind: HTTPRoute
    ---
    apiVersion: networking.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
    kind: HTTPRoute
    metadata:
      name: http
      namespace: default
      labels:
        selected: "yes"
    spec:
      hostnames: ["httpbin.example.com"]
      rules:
      - matches:
        - path:
            type: Prefix

>             value: /get

Reviewer: Does the `requestHeaderModifier`, below, actually work?
If so, maybe you should change the path to `/headers`, so you can demonstrate it working in the curl example.

Author: `/get` shows the header as well. It does work

Reviewer: Ah, cool. In that case it would be good to include it in the output (around line 103) and mention it in the following text.

        filters:
        - type: RequestHeaderModifier
          requestHeaderModifier:
            add:
              my-added-header: added-value
        forwardTo:
        - serviceName: httpbin
          port: 8000
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1.  Access the _httpbin_ service using _curl_:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl -s -HHost:httpbin.example.com "http://$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT/get"
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    server: istio-envoy
    ...
    {{< /text >}}

>     Note that you use the `-H` flag to set the _Host_ HTTP header to

Reviewer 2: Note the use of the ...
